FIRST Tech Challenge: OPR vs. Final Rank Analysis  


This project analyzes data from the FIRST Tech Challenge (FTC) World Championships to determine the correlation between a team's Offensive Power Rating (OPR) and their final placement. It introduces a new metric, "Average Adjusted OPR (AAOPR),"  which accounts for the strength of a team's partners and opponents in each match, as well as uses Matplotlib to create visual representations of a teams success. The primary goal is to assess how well this adjusted OPR predicts a team's final rank, and determine which metrics best predicted the success of an individual team.


Initially, I was interested in simply figuring out how much a team's strength of schedule affected how they placed during the qualification section of the FTC Championships. I assumed that if you played tougher opponents while also being paired with worse teammates would be incredibly influencial in determining whether any one team would win or lose their match. After completing the analysis of the data however, I was shocked to learn that while your strength of schedule as represented by your Average Adjusted OPR did correlate with your final placement ranking, it was no where near the most important metric in a teams success. This is well ilustrated when viewing correllation coefficients for every metric individually, where AAOPR has a correlation of approximately 0.48. This is relatively low when compared to other metrics such as normal OPR or Auto OPR (which is a measure of a teams performance during the autonomous period of play), which has correlations of 0.79 and 0.72 respectively. 
